Lilia Isabel Aguirre Lugo 
Pippin Barr 
CART 263
February 4 2020

Artist Statement 

The theme for this project is the myth of Sisyphus, which is about a king named Sisyphus who, 
as punishment, has to roll a boulder up a hill for all of eternity. On that note, I decided to 
create a game where the player is given a mission but they will never be able to achieve it and 
so the game would continue forever. For this project, I mainly use jQuery, jQuery UI and experimented
with CSS animation.

The story of my game is that the player is an incompetent ghost guard who accidently let the 
ghost they were guarding escape and it is the players mission to catch them and collect them 
in a “ghost meter”. The goal is to collect 8 ghosts but the player will never reach that goal
because the ghosts keep escaping right before that goal can be achieved, and so the player has
to continuously try to catch all the ghosts. But never will.

Ghosts – Using jQuery UI’s draggable function, the ghosts are draggable and the player has to
drag them towards the “ghost meter”.  Also, the ghosts can disappear and reappear which gives
an illusion of movement and makes them slightly difficult to find. This was done with CSS 
animation, which changes the opacity of the ghost image.  When a ghost is dropped in the ghost 
meter, a sound will play. 

Ghost Meter – The game has a ghost meter that indicates the number of ghosts that need to be 
captured and the amount of ghost that have been caught. I used the droppable function from 
jQuery UI to make the counting possible and to make a function that makes it that the meter
starts from the bottom and fills to the top. The ghost meter has 8 levels for 8 ghosts, but
when the 7th one is reached, the game resets and will continuously reset whenever 7 ghosts 
are caught. In addition, because of this, one ghost is left out each time and so the number 
of ghosts on the screen increases each time the game resets.

Dialog - The game starts with a message, using a modal message dialog box, which does not
allow the player to interact with the game unless they click the OK button. Interacting 
with the OK button also allows for the background sound to start playing. The message rudely 
informs the player that they accidently released trapped ghosts and that they now have to 
catch them all. A dialog box also appears when the ghost meter reaches the 7th level which 
presents a rude message telling the player that they are useless and need to try to catch
the ghost again. I chose to have a rude message to resemble a terrible manager and the loath 
of having to listen to them. jQuery UI was used to make the dialog and I included them in the
game to add some personality to it and a little more to interact with.
